Keir Starmer would make the UK less safe, Rishi Sunak has claimed in a wide-ranging speech which previewed issues likely to come up in the election expected this year.

The PM said Labour would not match his pledges on defence including a commitment to boost defence spending to 2.5% of national income by 2030.

Labour has said it would meet the same target when conditions allow.

Asked about the remarks, Sir Keir said security would be his "first priority".

He accused the Conservatives of "hollowing out" the armed forces and "wasting billions of pounds on procurement", adding that voters at the next election faced a choice between Labour "or continuing with this government of chaos and division".

The government has said it would meet its 2.5% pledge by shrinking the size of the civil service.

Think tanks including the Royal Untied Services Institute and the Institute for Fiscal Studies have said the extra spending would also have to come from cuts to other departments.
The Conservatives are currently behind Labour in the polls and Mr Sunak faces an uphill struggle to turn things around before the next general election.

In his 30 minute speech - which sounded like the opening salvo in an election campaign and included a personal attack on the Labour leader - Mr Sunak described a future that was both a time of danger but also of transformation.

He warned of threats from an "axis of authoritarian powers" such as Russia, Iran, North Korea and China and spoke of the challenges to cyber security.

However, he also argued there were reasons for optimism citing the potential of artificial intelligence to improve education and health.

In contrast to his conference speech last autumn, which had the theme of change, he also sought to defend the Conservatives' time in government, while attempting to personify the future.

He admitted that the party's record was not "perfect" and that he understood some people felt their "confidence and pride" in the country had been "knocked".

"I understand that, I accept it, I want to change it," he said.